.TH FLT 1 "2026-03-01" "Flit 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
flt \- a lightweight terminal text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flt
.RI [ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B flt
is a small, fast terminal text editor built upon
.BR kilo (1).
It operates in raw terminal mode and requires no configuration files.
Features include syntax highlighting for C, Python, and Markdown; line
numbers; text selection; copy and paste; and a built-in file explorer.
.PP
If
.I file
is given,
.B flt
opens it for editing. If the file does not exist it will be created on
save. If no file is given,
.B flt
opens with an empty buffer.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.SS Navigation
.TP
.B Arrow keys
Move the cursor one character or line.
.TP
.BR "Page Up" ", " "Page Down"
Scroll one screen up or down.
.SS Editing
.TP
.B Enter
Insert a newline.
.TP
.B Backspace ", " Delete
Delete the character before / under the cursor. If a selection is
active, delete the selected text instead.
.TP
.B Tab
Insert a tab character. When a selection is active, prompt for an
indent direction: press
.B i
to indent the selected lines or
.B u
to unindent them.
.SS File
.TP
.B Ctrl\-S
Save the current buffer to disk. If no filename is associated with the
buffer, you will be prompted to enter one.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-Q
Quit
.BR flt .
.SS Search
.TP
.B Ctrl\-F
Open an incremental search prompt. Type to search; use the arrow keys
to move between matches. Press
.B Enter
or
.B Escape
to return to editing.
.SS Selection
.TP
.B Ctrl\-A
Toggle selection mode. When selection mode is on, cursor movement
extends the selected region.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-C
Copy the current selection into the internal clipboard.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-V
Paste the clipboard contents at the cursor. If a selection is active it
is replaced by the pasted text.
.SS Explorer
.TP
.B Ctrl\-E
Toggle the file explorer panel. Use the arrow keys to navigate and
.B Enter
to open a file.
.SS Miscellaneous
.TP
.B Ctrl\-H
Display a brief help reminder in the status bar.
.SH SYNTAX HIGHLIGHTING
.B flt
detects the file type from the file extension and applies highlighting
automatically.
.TS
l l.
Extension	Language
\&.c .h .cpp	C / C++
\&.py	Python
\&.md	Markdown
.TE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Josh. Built upon
.I kilo
by antirez, following the guide at
.IR https://viewsourcecode.org/snaptoken/kilo/ .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vi (1),
.BR nano (1)
